---
layout: post
title:  "Thoughts on React"
date:   2013-11-10 10:18:00
---


This project was a chance to intuitively explore React and React Router and get a better feel for how things fit together.

The only way to really get to know a new technology is to get your hands dirty. Thats it. you can read tutorials until your eyes bleed or follow along as someone codes up a TODO app. Your brain will give you a false sense of understanding because all the connections have been made and are being clearly presented to you.

It's ok to look at documentation, but if you find yourself completely unable to solve basic problems in the new framework then its probably a good hint that you may not really know what you're doing. I think intuition in a language/framework is what I look to gain.

At my day job, we are mostly a static site, so jQuery is still my bread and butter, but I try to be knowledgeable about new technologies in the front end world, and between newsletters and meet ups, React is the new hotness in these streets.

Takeaways

1.  Learning to think React was an interesting paradigm change from the world of jQuery. jQuery is imperative (do this, then do this, then check on this ...) while React aims for declarative (big picture)programming. Whenever I came across a problem I’d often start hacking something together that Just Worked, but realized I was coding around the framework, rather than with the framework. Understand the big ideas of the tools/frameworks/libraries you use.

2.  Getting started is easy, getting things done takes time.

React has a relatively small API of methods to remember. FB’s documentation is really good. You feel empowered. Then you step off the well worn path and try to build something a bit more complex and realize that there’s not a lot of guidance concerning how to structure your project when it comes to features that we take for granted in modern web development. You don’t need Redux off the bat, but if you see yourself wanting to use React in a professional setting you will. Further you’ll probably need to know React Router and an understanding of how Redux deals with async operations. It may take a while to really get these concepts down.


3.  The long road to intuition.
I like building small projects that I can get excited about and break things. Those first wins are so important. When I first start learning a new framework I like to look at other peoples code and replicate features. The problem is react is still pretty new and things change quickly.

	A few:

	a.  createClass vs React.Component vs stateless functional component vs container components.
	b   JSX, ES5, ES6 and ES7 (i’m looking at you object spread operator) syntax used in examples. While not hard to learn you will find documentation and examples that use all of them and it not knowing some core features of ES6 will make understanding React examples difficult. In addition there are some subtle differences in creating components between them that distract from the real matter which is learning React.
	c.  babel and take your pick of various asset bundlers. 

4. Ajax and Routing and Redux
While not a concern of a beginner, eventually you’re gonna have to understand Redux. The creator of redux advises not to reach for it until you need it, and you’ll know you need it when you need it, which is fine advice. (Though the pragmatist in me would love to hear stories about people who implemented Redux after getting into the thickets using basic state/props and how the process of transferring that logic to a store/reducers/action creators went.)

There is shockingly little idiomatic guidance about how to work with routers and redux. This article sums it up way better than i ever could: https://formidable.com/blog/2016/07/11/let-the-url-do-the-talking-part-1-the-pain-of-react-router-in-redux/
I'm also not sure how you validate route params (making sure its an integer, or only of x.length) so that a path like 'products/123' is valid but 'products/foo' defaults to your 404 page. The guys who made react-router are great and have done the community a solid with this work, but i wonder if maybe we are getting beyond the initial use case of react and trying to make it work in ways it was never considered to work in.

I'm not saying that a library should do everything for me. I'm a developer and I like solving problems. But I want to know if I'm going about it "the right way".  React makes such strong use of composition, dependency injection, immutability and declarative programming that I'm not sure if I'm going off the reservation by hacking something together that works while missing the forrest for the trees.

And that brings me to my final point, the ecosystem is solidifying but still moving. I know React is being used in the wild, but I'd love to hear people's thoughts on it building robust production products. I'm sure it can be done, but it requires a lot of decisions to be made, (Mobi, Alt, Redux, Flux, React-Router, React-Router-Redux, ReactTransitionGroup) and sometimes decisions can be overwhelming. As more people share pain points and wins i’m sure some common best practices will emerge and I’ll look back at this post with a chuckle.

All in all it was fun to get lost in the woods and learn.




